We're using Jetpack Compose,
not the classic Android XML development.
And by the way, that's good news.
So I've been an Android developer for
ten years and
I've created several apps, and
the XML system was always painful.
Okay, I'm not saying this is not painful,
but it's less painful for
at least a lot of situations.
Okay, the Android XML world
was always kind of heavy
compared with iOS or or other platforms.
So main concepts of Jetpack Compose,
first, Android activity.
Actually the activity is not
a Jetpack Compose concept, but
we need to understand
quickly what that is.
In classic Android development,
every screen of your app was
actually an activity, okay?
An activity is something that
we register into the OS.
So we as developers,
we register activities.
Activities are like user interfaces
that are known by the OS.
Today, we can have an app
with only one activity.
And then we navigate
between different views or
different screens in that same activity.
That's what we're going to do
with Jetpack Compose today.
So we will have only one activity, okay?
Then the app has a theme.
A theme is a set of colors.
It's a color palette.
It's also a set of typography settings.
It can also contain dimensions and
things about your current theme, okay?
In fact, in our project,
we do have a theme.
If you look at the source
code in the Java folder,
there is a UI theme sub-folder
there with some Kotlin files for
the find colors, shapes,
theme, and the type.
And if you're getting your color,
you'll see some declarations.
The most important concept that we
are going to use here is a composable.
A composable is actually a UI component.
What we typically know as a component,
a view, a widget, in other platforms.
Here, it's called composable, okay?
So we're going to be building composable.
It's like an HTML element,
if you want, or a web component.
So composables will have properties and
modifiers, but
we'll get into that in a minute.
And modifier, it's a function that
will return another composable.
It will take a composable.
It will modify the composable and
will return another composable, okay?
Typically in Jetpack Compose,
modifiers are being used for
layout changes, for
defining width, height, borders,
paddings, margins for
layout, that sort of things.
And also for events when something
is clickable, scrollable, and so on.
That's a modifier.
Composition is actually the name of,
I'm simplifying this a little bit
at this point, but a composition is
the tree structure of what you have
on the screen of your composable.
So we have a composition of composables.
And a composable is being composed by
the framework, that's kind of idea, okay?
We have Mutable State & Remember.
These are things that we will
see in action in a minute, okay?
So a composable by default is read only.
But we can have mutable state.
So things that will make our
composable re-render on the screen.
We have composition local that
we're not going to see today, but
composition local will let you do some
kind of global injection of services.
It doesn't matter for now.
Side effects, Side effects are for
example things that are not
part of the composable.
For example, going to the network,
that's a side effect.
We have different dimension units in
Android and we're going to use two.
We have px, that stands for pixel,
but we are not going to use pixel.
Pixel, it's a physical pixel, which
means that the higher the resolution,
the smaller the pixel, and
we don't wanna design like that.
We're going to use most of the time dp's.
dp means device independent pixel,
that is unit.
We will see that in action.
And sp, s for scalable,
we're going to use s for font sizes, okay?
And I will explain what
that is in a minute.
I think we have a question there.
>> Yeah, is there something like hooks,
such as React, or what's the concept?
>> So Jetpack Compose is
actually pretty similar to React.
I don't wanna say that it's a copy,
but it's kind of, I mean,
compared with other frameworks that
are part of the same deal, like Flutter or
Swift UI, Jetpack Compose is the one
that is actually closer to React.
We're going to see that
the mutable state is being defined
in a very similar way as a React hook.
So it's very similar to
use a state in React.
We're going to see that in
action in a minute, okay?
So it's pretty similar.
Okay, and for graphical assets,
we are going to use PNG files and
SVG for vector-based graphics.
Have in mind,
Android does not support SVGs.
You lied to us, well, Android Studio will
convert the SVG into an Android
vector format, XML based.
So we are going to take the SVG, but
actually Android Studio will convert that
into another vector-based format that
is compatible with Android, okay?
So from your designers, you will
probably need SVG files, okay, or PNG.
Make sense?
>> What is it?
I'm sorry, did you say it
automatically convert to PNG?
>> Not automatically,
we are going to do that,
you need to convert SVGs into XML.
And Android Studio will have
the tool to do that, okay?
We're going to do that.